Microsoft Clarity destination docs (#1024)
rudderlabs/rudderstack-docs: docs/destinations/streaming-destinations/microsoft-clarity.mdx

---
title: "Microsoft Clarity"
description: Step-by-step guide on sending your event data from RudderStack to Microsoft Clarity.
aliases: ["Microsoft Clarity destination"]
---

[Microsoft Clarity](https://clarity.microsoft.com/) is a heatmaps and session recording tool. It helps you better understand how users are interacting with your website through session replays and heatmaps.

> RudderStack supports Microsoft Clarity as a destination where you can seamlessly send your event data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

can skip according to our latest destination template

2. Assign a name to the destination and click **Continue**.

## Connection settings

To successfully configure Microsoft Clarity as a destination, you will need to configure the following settings:

- **Project ID**: Enter your Microsoft Clarity project ID. For more information on obtaining your Clarity project ID, refer to the <Link to="#faq">FAQ</Link> section below.
- **Microsoft Clarity Cookie Consent**: Enable this setting to allow RudderStack to call the Microsoft Clarity API to track the users using a cookie.
- **Client-side Events Filtering**: This setting lets you specify which events should be blocked or allowed to flow through to Microsoft Clarity. For more information on this setting, refer to the <Link to="/sources/sdks/event-filtering/">Client-side Events Filtering</Link> guide.
- **Use device mode to send events**: As this is a <Link to="https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/destinations/rudderstack-connection-modes/#device-mode">web device mode</Link>-only destination, this setting is enabled by default and cannot be disabled.

> - - **OneTrust Cookie Categories**: This setting lets you associate <Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/consent-managers/onetrust/">OneTrust</Link> cookie consent groups to Microsoft Clarity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **OneTrust Cookie Categories**: This setting lets you associate <Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/consent-managers/onetrust/">OneTrust</Link> cookie consent groups to Microsoft Clarity.
```

## Identify

You can use the <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/identify/">`identify`</Link> events to create a new user in Microsoft Clarity.

A sample `identify` call is shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.identify("1hKOmRA4GRlm", {
  name: "Alex Keener",
  email: "alex@example.com"
});
```

> By default, Clarity uses cookies to track your users and gather the session data. You can configure your Clarity project to require <a href="https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/clarity/cookie-consent">cookie consent</a>, that is, Clarity **will not** place a cookie until the user's consent is obtained.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, Clarity uses cookies to track your users and gather the session data. You can configure your Clarity project to require <a href="https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/clarity/cookie-consent">cookie consent</a>, that is, Clarity **will not** place a cookie until a user provides consent.
```

<img src="../../assets/event-stream-destinations/clarity-cookie-consent.png" alt="Microsoft Clarity cookie consent enabled" />

<br />

> In this case, to track the user sessions via the cookie, make sure you enable the **Microsoft Clarity Cookie Consent** setting in the RudderStack dashboard. This setting indicates that RudderStack can call the Clarity API to track the users via a cookie once the consent is obtained.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, to track the user sessions via the cookie, make sure you enable the **Microsoft Clarity Cookie Consent** setting in the RudderStack dashboard. This setting indicates that RudderStack can call the Clarity API to track the users via a cookie once a user provides consent.
```
